Term entry swiftui padding (#1475)
Codecademy/docs: content/swiftui/concepts/viewmodifier/terms/padding/padding.md

---
Title: '.padding()'
Description: 'Applies padding to the view.'
Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'iOS'
Tags:
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'SwiftUI ViewModifiers'
  - 'Xcode'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

The **`.padding()`** modifier method applies padding to the view.

## Syntax

```psuedo
Text("This text has padding around it.")
    .padding(edge, number)
```

The `.padding()` modifier method has the following attributes:

> - `edge` to specify the edge on which the padding should be applied. One or multiple edges or a collection of edges can be specified. For example, `.top` will add padding only to the view's top edge, `[.bottom, trailing]` will add padding to the bottom and right edge of the view, and `.vertical`  will add padding to the left and right edge of the view. If no edge is specified, the padding will be applied on all edges of the view.

Reviewer: I'd like to see a bulleted list of all the `edge` options.

Reviewer: My suggestion was to include *all* the possible options. For instance, there's no mention of `.horizontal` or how to add padding to the left edge.

Author: Thank you, @SSwiniarski, for the clarification! Wouldn't a table be a better option than a sub-list?

Reviewer: @cslylla, either way would work. Whatever you're comfortable with.

Author: @SSwiniarski, I tried the table, but it made the document more difficult to read. So I listed all the options. I am curious to see what you think!

Reviewer: @cslylla The bulleted list works well.

- `number` to specify the amount of padding in points. For example, `20` will apply 20 points of padding to the view. The default padding will be applied equally to the edges of the view if no `number` is given.

> > **Note:** The `.padding()` modifier method can be used without any specified attributes, with one or with two attributes specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The `.padding()` modifier method can be used without any specified attributes, or with one or with two attributes specified.
```

---
Title: '.padding()'

> Description: 'Applies padding to the view.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Applies spacing around a view.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'iOS'
Tags:
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'SwiftUI ViewModifiers'
  - 'Xcode'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

> The **`.padding()`** modifier method applies padding to the [view](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`.padding()`** modifier method applies padding or spacing around a [view](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views).
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
Text("This text has padding around it.")
    .padding(edges, amount)
```

The `.padding()` modifier method uses the following optional parameters:

> - The `edges` is a [set](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swift/sets) that specifies which side(s) the padding should be applied to. The following options are possible:

Reviewer 2: The first parameter is not a set in the data structure sense, but a set as in option set. Let's remove the term "set" to avoid confusion and say:

```suggestion
- `edge` specifies which side(s) the padding should be applied to. The following options are possible:
```

Author: Thank you for the explanation!

  - `.all` (default option): Applies padding to all edges of the view
  - `.top`: Applies padding to the top edge of the view
  - `.bottom`: Applies padding to the bottom edge of the view
  - `.trailing`: Applies padding to the right edge of the view
  - `.leading`: Applies padding to the left edge of the view
  - `.vertical`: Applies padding to both the left and right edges of the view

>   - `.horizontal`: Applies padding to both the top and bottom edges of the view

Reviewer 2: I think this may be easier to read in a table like with 2 columns. One for the parameter and another for the edges the padding is applied. This way, we don't have to keep writing "applies padding to..."

Author: I changed the list to a table.

> - The `amount` of padding is given in points (as an integer). If this is given a `nil` value, SwiftUI assigns a default amount based on the device being used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `amount` of padding is given in points as an integer. If given a `nil` value, SwiftUI assigns a default amount based on the device being used.
```

> > **Note:** The `.padding()` modifier method can be used without any specified attributes, or with one or with two attributes specified.

Reviewer 2: Can we actually take this out of a note and turn it into a sentence about the default behavior of the modifier when nothing is passed in?

Author: Sure, I updated the text!

---
Title: '.padding()'
Description: 'Applies padding to the view.'
Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'iOS'
Tags:
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'SwiftUI ViewModifiers'
  - 'Xcode'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

The **`.padding()`** modifier method applies padding to the view.

## Syntax

```psuedo
Text("This text has padding around it.")
    .padding(edge, number)
```

The `.padding()` modifier method has the following attributes:

> - `edge` to specify the edge on which the padding should be applied. The following options are possible:

Author: That is so nicely put!

  - `.all` is the default option, and it applies padding to all edges of the view,
  - `.top` applies padding to the top edge of the view,
  - `.bottom` applies padding to the bottom edge of the view,
  - `.trailing` applies padding to the right edge of the view,
  - `.leading` applies padding to the left edge of the view,
  - `.vertical` applies padding to both the left and right edges of the view,
  - `.horizontal` applies padding to both the top and bottom edges of the view,

>   - multiple edges can also be specified simultaneously, e.g.: `[.bottom, .trailing]` will add padding to the bottom and right edge of the view.

Author: Should these list items end with a comma, or if they are capitalized, then with a full stop?

> 
> - `number` to specify the amount of padding in points. If no `number` is given, the default padding, which is 10, will be applied equally to the edges of the view. To specify the padding, an integer must be entered; e.g., `20` will apply 20 points of padding to the view.
> 
> > **Note:** The `.padding()` modifier method can be used without any specified attributes, or with one or with two attributes specified.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `amount` of padding is given in points (as an integer). If this is given a `nil` value, SwiftUI assigns a default amount based on the device being used.

> **Note:** The `.padding()` modifier method can be used without any specified attributes, or with one or with two attributes specified.

```
